>> Brian Holt: So the next thing we
want to do is we want to add the ability
to add, so I can click on it that it will
show me a different primary image, right?
So the way I'm gonna do this is
I'm gonna add a click handler and
say handleIndex Click.
>> Brian Holt: So typically this would
be a method that looks like this.
This.setState.
>> Brian Holt: And this is we're
gonna take in an event, right?
This looks just like a normal event
handler that you would see on
every jQuery application, right?
This event technically is
a react synthetic event, right.
But you can treat it just
like a normal dom event.
They modeled the API to
be exactly the same.
And then I would say active and
event.Target
>> Brian Holt: And
I don't think I did that part yet
so we still have to go do that but
we'll do it here in just a second.
We're gonna say, .dataset.index.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So now we need to go put this data
set thing on the image itself so
that we know when we click it,
that we're getting the index back so
that we can set that as
the new active thing.
So the way we're going to do that is
we're going to go to our image here and
just anywhere put data dash
index equals index, like that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, question.
>> off screen male: Are you using
state instead of props just to avoid
the filter on each rerender?
>> Brian Holt: Yes.
So that's a good question.
Why don't we just do this,
cuz we do it somewhere else.
I think we do it in every single
render method, we just do the filter.
[COUGH] The fact of the matter
is this can be done once, and
then not have to be worried
about in the future.
And then as props change in
the future we can keep re-doing it.
But this is not changing very frequently.
Nor is the state here
changing very frequently.
So that's why were going to get
this derived states from prompts.
And in general if you have
derived data from prompts this
is a really really good way of doing it.
Very compelling way.
But yeah that is a very good question.
We could just move this entire thing to
our [INAUDIBLE] to be honest with you,
in this particular case,
wouldn't suffer much performance hit.
But I think this makes it simpler.
I prefer things that make my render
method as simple as possible.
Cuz the render method ends up being the
most complicated thing every single time.
So here, this ends up being
a lot simpler because I don't
have to worry about filtering
stuff out of my data.
I get to move all of that out into this.
And the other cool thing about this, now
this particular thing is testable, right?
This is very easy to test.
I would just import this into my test and
then I could test carousel dot and
get derive data from props, pass in some
fake props and make sure it's giving me
the state that I anticipate so
I also find that very compelling.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
this is still broken, by the way.
So we still have two things
that we have to fix on this.
>> Brian Holt: One, we're reading
stuff back in from the dom, right, so
event.target.dataset ,in
case you don't know,
this is just a normal dom thing, right?
If I put data dash whatever,
that's going to be on the data set for
a dom object, right?
Regardless if you're in react or
not, right?
If I'm in just writing normal jquery,
dataset is still a thing there because I
have data-index that means
I can access dataset.index.
Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's the first thing, but
the problem here is we
have a type mismatch.
This is still not gonna be
true because we're asking,
is index triple equal to active.
If you remember from your basic JavaScript
days this is a strict comparison.
We're checking both the type and
the value.
This is gonna come back to the string, and
right now this is not a string,
this is a number, right?
So this is not going to be true,
that's a problem, right?
So we need to cast this to be a number or
convert it or
coerce it in to being a number.
There's a bunch of ways to do this.
My favorite way of doing it
is just putting a plus sign.
>> Brian Holt: This takes a string and
makes it a number.
>> off screen female: Is that coercing it?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm.
>> off screen female: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, that's actually,
there's a bunch of ways to do it,
I find this to be the easiest one.
>> Brian Holt: Coercion is a messy
topic when it comes to JavaScript and
in my opinion one of the most difficult
things to fully wrap your mind around.
I don't think I really understand
coercion in its greatest depths.
The only person that I think that
understands it is Kyle Simpson because
that guy studies everything.
So if you want to know, read Kyle's book
or watch his courses on Front End Masters.
>> Brian Holt: But
I promise you this works,
[LAUGH] this turns a string into a number,
okay?
Next thing,
we still have another problem here.
>> Brian Holt: That problem is that
we're calling handleIndexClick.
We have to put that on onClick
handler too, so let's do that.
Under image,
we have to put onClick, equals,
this.handleIndexClick, like that.
I'm gonna get,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it's gonna be upset about that.
>> Brian Holt: So typically I would
tell you to not do this, but for
the sake of one, you should always
listen to the JSX [INAUDIBLE] stuff and
just do what it tells you,
images are not interactive elements right,
we should make these buttons technically.
But for now, I'm just going to
show you how to disable a line.
Eslint-disable-next-line.
And this is going to tell eslint,
I know I have a problem here,
just ignore it for now.
>> Brian Holt: This is dangerous showing
you these things because now you're going
to litter your code bases with them.
>> Brian Holt: But this should
be refactored to be a button and
an image inside of a button, right, and
then now you can tap through it.
But for now we'll just make
this an onClick handler.
>> Brian Holt: Okay still one more
problem here, handleIndexClick.
This is an event listener, right?
Or events handler.
>> Brian Holt: So whenever I click on this
image it's going to call handleIndexClick,
right?
It's gonna call this.setState.
What is this here in this particular case?
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna be
called as an event handler, right?
But you don't actually really know what
context it's gonna be in when it's called.
And let me tell you,
that is the incorrect context, right?
Because you're ripping out
this handleIndexClick and
you're going to be calling
it from the Window, right?
So it's gonna be undefined or
it's gonna be Window.
Any either case, it's not the one
that we anticipate it being.
There's two ways to handle this.
We already have a thing called
the class properties, right?
We already did that, so
I'll show you that one in just a second.
But if you're not using class properties,
it would have to be like this.
We'd have to go into our constructor so
you don't have to type this,
I'll just show you this.
And then first thing I would say is,
super(props) and
then I would say, this.handleIndexClick =
this.handleIndexClick.bind(this).
So inside of your constructor, for
anything that's going to
be an event listener and
you calling this dot set state or this
dot whatever, you would have to do this.
Then, as you pull out this method and
then hand it to react a call later.
It would be the correct this, right?
Because you're binding the context.
Again, bind is something from ES5 so
this has been in JavaScript since.
Before 2015 it'd be like 2013 or
2012, or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: And it's going to make
sure that whenever you call this method,
this is always going to be
set to whatever instance of
the Carousel that you're doing, right?
So that's what the bind(this) here does.
Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: If you have
a bunch of event listeners,
this list gets quite long and
it gets quite annoying, right.
And it's just kind of burdensome
to have to do this in my opinion.
That's why I'm a huge fan
of these class properties,
cuz how I can actually fix that now is I
can make this an arrow function like this.
>> Brian Holt: Now this works, why?
Because function and
arrow functions have slightly different
semantics when it comes to binding this.
When you create an arrow function,
it doesn't create a new context when
it's called, which means it just reverts
to whatever lexical scope it's in, right?
If I have a function, so
if I have a normal function like this,
it creates a new scope whenever it's
called, right, wherever it's called from.
So that scope can change depending on
where you call x in this particular case.
However if I have const
y equals arrow function.
>> Brian Holt: This one does not
create a new scope wherever it is, so
it just reversed to whatever lexical
scope, or wherever it is, right.
So in this particular case
handleIndexClick doesn't create a new
scope, so it just reversed to wherever
it's created, which is here in carousel.
Again, it's kind of more basics,
levels of JavaScript.
This kind of stuff and if you need more of
that kind of stuff I definitely recommend
more Front End Masters courses,
like Kyle Simpson's,
he talks a lot about this kind of stuff.
Furthermore, they love to ask these
questions in job interviews, just throwing
that out there, context just seems to what
this is is a very, very common question,
which is dumb because it doesn't
normally matter but that's what they do.
I'm not bitter or upset or anything.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Is that makes sense why this works now?
Hopefully.
>> Brian Holt: There are just really
ridiculous conversations that people have
about, is this more performant
versus one way or the other.
You're creating too many instances of,
blah, blah, blah, it doesn't matter.
You almost never hit the performance
hit because this is such a small thing.
So I would say this is fine,
don't worry about it.
If people on Twitter at your job say like,
well this is less performance like,
it's so miniscule, it's such a,
you know, atom in the bucket that you will
never notice the performance profile here.
Unless you're writing like really highly,
highly,
highly performance sensitive things.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now if we go back
over here, just save,
this should start working, and it does.
>> Brian Holt: That is a cute dog.
>> Brian Holt: But,
it's pretty cool, right?
It changes which one's highlighted
because of the active thing, right?
And, it's actually changing
our hero image, as well.